Mark the letter A, B, C or D to indicate the sentence that is closet in meaning to each of the following question.
: The basketball team knew they lost the match. They soon started to blame each other.
A. Hardly had the basketball team known they lost the match when they started to blame each other.
B. Not only did the basketball team lose the match, but they blamed each other as well.
C. No sooner had the basketball team started to blame each other than they knew they lost the match.
D. As soon as they blamed each other, the basketball team knew they lost the match.
A
 : Sue and Brian met. Shortly after that, he announced they were getting married.
A. As soon as Sue and Brian met, they announced they were getting married.
B. Right at the time Brian met Sue, he announced they were getting married.
C. Scarcely had Sue and Brian met when he announced they were getting married.
D. Until Sue and Brian met, they had announced they were getting married.
C
 : She had only begun to speak. People started interrupting.
A. She hardly had begun to speak when people started interrupting.
B. Hardly she had begun to speak when people started interrupting.
C. Hardly had she begun to speak when people started interrupting.
D. She hadn’t begun to speak when people started interrupting.
C
 : I had only just put the phone down. The boss rang back.
A. I put the phone down when the boss rang back.
B. Hardly had I put the phone down when the boss rang back.
C. No sooner had I put the phone down when the boss rang back.
D. Scarcely had I put the phone down than the boss rang back.
B
 : He had done a lot of research. He soon wrote the book.
A. Only after had he done a lot of research he wrote the book.
B. Not until he had conducted a lot of research did he write the book.
C. Only when he had done a lot of research he wrote the book.
D. It was not until he conducted a lot of research did he write the book.
B
 : The car turned the corner. The wheel came off.
A. No sooner has the car turned the corner than the wheel came off.
B. No sooner the car had turned the corner than the wheel came off.
C. No sooner had the car turned the corner, the wheel came off.
D. No sooner had the car turned the corner than the wheel came off.
D
 : Maria just passed her driving test. Maria received a car right then.
A. Hardly had Maria received a car when she passed her driving test.
B. It was not until Maria got a car that she quickly passed her driving test.
C. Maria was not able to get a car until she passed her driving test.
D. No sooner had Maria passed her driving test than she was given a car.
D
 : We arrived at the airport. We realized our passports were still at home.
A. It was until we arrived at the airport that we realized our passports were still at home.
B. We arrived at the airport and realized that our passports are still at home.
C. Not until had we arrived at the airport, we realized our passports were still at home.
D. Not until we arrived at the airport did we realize that our passports were still at home.
D
 : The date of the conference was chosen. Invitations were sent out.
A. After choosing the date of the conference, invitations were sent out.
B. Before sending out invitations, the date of the conference been chosen.
C. Hardly had the date of the conference been chosen when invitations were sent out.
D. Choose the date of the conference before sending out invitations.
C
 : Han told us about his investing in the company. He did it on his arrival at the meeting.
A. Only after investing in the company did Han inform us of his arrival at the meeting.
B. Not until Han told us that he would invest in the company did he arrive at the meeting.
C. Hardly had he informed us about his investing in the company when Han arrived at the meeting.
D. No sooner had Han arrived at the meeting than he told us about his investing in the company.
D
 : The plan may be ingenious. It will never work in practice.
A. Ingenious as it may be, the plan will never work in practice.
B. Ingenious as may the plan, it will never work in practice.
C. The plan may be too ingenious to work in practice.
D. The plan is impractical as it is ingenious.
A
 : He is very intelligent. He can solve all the problems in no time.
A. So intelligent a student is he that he can solve all the problems in no time.
B. So intelligent is he that he can solve all the problems in no time.
C. An intelligent student is he that he can solve all the problems in no time.
D. He is very intelligent that he can solve all the problems in no time.
B
 : I had picked some roses. That was when I noticed my mother’s favorite vase was missing.
A. When I knew that my mother’s vase was missing, I picked some roses.
B. I picked some roses and only then did I notice that my mother’s favorite vase was missing.
C. Only when I had picked some roses that I noticed my mother’s favorite vase was missing.
D. It was not until I had picked some roses did I notice my mother’s favorite vase was missing.
B
 : We started out for Seoul. It started to rain right after that.
A. No sooner did we start out for Seoul than it started to rain.
B. No sooner had we started out for Seoul when it started to rain.
C. No sooner had it started to rain than we started out for Seoul.
D. No sooner had we started out for Seoul than it started to rain.
D
 : He left school. He soon started computer programming.
A. No sooner had he started computer programming than he left school.
B. Hardly had he started computer programming when he left school.
C. No sooner had he left school than he started computer programming.
D. After he left school, he had started computer programming.
C
 : The rain stopped. We could see the view of the ocean right after that.
A. Not until had the rain stopped we could see the view of the ocean.
B. Not until the rain stopped could we see the view of the ocean.
C. Not until did the rain stop we could see the view of the ocean.
D. Not until had the rain stopped could we see the view of the ocean.
B
 : I had turned on my new iPad Pro. There was a strange noise right after that.
A. As soon as there was a strange noise, I turned on my new iPad Pro.
B. Scarcely had I turned on my new iPad Pro when there was a strange noise.
C. Hardly I had turned on my new iPad Pro, there was a strange noise.
D. I had hardly turned on my new iPad Pro than there was a strange noise.
B
 : Maria sings well. She writes good songs, too.
A. Maria can either sing well or write good songs.
B. Maria can neither sing well or write good songs.
C. Not only does Maria sing well but she also writes good songs.
D. Well as Maria sings, she writes good songs.
C
 : The boy got out of his house. It soon started to rain heavily.
A. It had rained heavily before the boy got out of his house.
B. Hardly had it started to rain heavily when the boy got out of his house.
C. No sooner had the boy got out of his house than it started to rain heavily.
D. Not until it started to rain heavily did the boy got out of his house.
C
 : He died in . He received the bravery award in .
A. Only after his death did he receive the bravery award in .
B. Because he died in , he received the bravery award in .
C. He died in  so he received the bravery award in .
D. Before his death, he received the bravery award in .
A
 : You can feel more at ease by taking part in group dating. It’s the only way.
A. By taking part in group dating can you only feel more at ease.
B. Only by taking part in group dating can you feel more at ease.
C. The only way you are by taking part in group dating can feel more at ease.
D. The way you can feel more at ease is taking part in only group dating.
B
 : Nancy failed to understand what the story was about. She saw the film based on it.
A. Nancy doesn’t understand what the story is about.
B. Not until she saw the film based on it did Nancy understand what the story was about.
C. It was until she saw the film based on it that Nancy understood what the story was about.
D. Nancy went to see the film before she read the story.
B
 : Tom didn’t understand the meaning of the comment. He soon saw his wife’s avatar.
A. Only when Tom saw his wife’s avatar did he understand the meaning of the comment.
B. Hardly had Tom understood the meaning of the comment than he saw his wife’s avatar.
C. Scarcely had Tom seen his wife’s avatar than he understood the meaning of the comment.
D. Soon after Tom had understood the meaning of the comment did he see his wife’s avatar.
A
 : Laura practised playing the instrument a lot. She could hardly improve her performance.
A. Hardly had Laura practised playing the instrument a lot when she could improve her performance.
B. Had Laura practised playing the instrument a lot, she could have performed much better.
C. However much Laura practised playing the instrument, she could hardly perform any better.
D. As soon as Laura practised playing the instrument a lot, she could perform much better.
C
 : The teacher had only just come in the room. Then the fire alarm rang.
A. While the teacher was coming in the room, she heard the fire alarm rang.
B. As soon as the fire alarm had rung, the teacher came in the room.
C. Before the teacher came in the room, the fire alarm rang.
D. Hardly had the teacher come in the room when the fire alarm rang.
D
 : She immediately turned up. Everything changed.
A. As soon as everything changed, she turned up.
B. Upon appearing, everything changed.
C. Soon after she turned up did everything change.
D. No sooner had she appeared did everything change.
C
 : A new pay was offered. The workers stopped the walkout right after that.
A. Not until a new pay was offered, the workers stop the walkout.
B. A new pay was offered, which made the walkout stop.
C. The workers stop the walkout only when a new pay offer.
D. Not until a new pay was offered did the workers stop the walkout.
D
 : They didn’t discover that the picture had been stolen. They soon came back home.
A. Until they came back home that they discovered that the picture had been stolen.
B. It is not until they came back home did they discover that the picture had been stolen.
C. Not until they came back home had the picture been stolen.
D. Only after they came back home did they discover that the picture had been stolen.
D
 : We had reached the top of the mountain. We realized how far we had come.
A. Not until we had reached the top of the mountain did we realize how far we had come.
B. Hardly had we reached the top of the mountain than we realized how far we had come.
C. Scarcely we had reached the top of the mountain did we realize how far we had come.
D. No sooner had we reached the top of the mountain when we realized how far we had come.
A
 : Ms. Diem had turned up at the party. She soon called home.
A. Calling home, Ms. Diem said that she had turned up at the party.
B. No sooner had Ms. Diem arrived at the party than she called home.
C. Ms. Diem turned up at the party sooner than he had expected.
D. Ms. Diem arrived at the party and called me to take her home.
B
 : He got down to writing the letter as soon as he returned from his walk.
A. No sooner had he returned from his walk when he got down to writing the letter.
B. Not until he returned from his walk did he get down to writing the letter.
C. Only after he had returned from his walk did he get down to writing the letter.
D. Hardly had he returned from his walk when he got down to writing the letter.
D
 : She just had time to put up her umbrella before the rain came down in torrents.
A. No sooner had she put up her umbrella than the rain came down in torrents.
B. The rain came down in torrents as soon as she just has time to put up her umbrella.
C. Only when she had put up her umbrella did the rain come down in torrents.
D. If she hadn’t time to put up her umbrella, the rain wouldn’t have come down in torrents.
A
 : If you want to save your eyesight, you must operate immediately.
A. Unless you want to save your eyesight, you mustn’t operate immediately.
B. Only by operating immediately can you save your eyesight.
C. Provided that you must operate immediately, you can save your eyesight.
D. If you did operate immediately, you couldn’t save your eyesight.
B
 : I only realized what I had missed when they told me about it later.
A. Only after I had realized what I had missed did they tell me about it later.
B. As soon as they told me about it I realized what I had missed.
C. Only when they told me about it later did I realize what I had missed.
D. They told me about it and I realized what I had missed.
C
 : The demand was so great that they had to reprint the book immediately.
A. So great was the demand that they had to reprint the book immediately.
B. So great the demand was that they had to reprint the book immediately.
C. Such great was the demand that they had to reprint the book immediately.
D. Such was the demand great that they had to reprint the book immediately.
A
 : She was so busy that she couldn’t answer the phone.
A. She was very busy that she couldn’t answer the phone.
B. So busy was she that she couldn’t answer the phone.
C. She was too busy not to answer the phone.
D. She was very busy so that she couldn’t answer the phone
B
 : She didn’t read the reference books. She wouldn’t be able to finish the test.
A. Had she read the reference books, she would have been able to finish the test.
B. If she had read the reference books, she could finish the test.
C. Although she didn’t read the reference books, she was able to finish the test.
D. Not having read the reference books, she couldn’t finish the test.
A
 : It was not until the sun was shining brightly that the little girl woke up.
A. No sooner was the sun shining brightly than the little girl woke up.
B. Not until the little girl woke up was the sun shining brightly.
C. Not until the sun was shining brightly did the little girl wake up.
D. As soon as the little girl woke up, the sun hasn’t shone brightly yet.
C
 : We couldn’t solve the problem until our teacher arrived.
A. Not until we solved the problem could our teacher arrive.
B. When our teacher arrived, we solved the problem.
C. Until our teacher arrived, we were able to solve the problem.
D. Not until our teacher arrived could we solve the problem.
D
 : The mistake in the accounts was not noticed until the figures were re-checked.
A. It was not until the mistake in the accounts was noticed that the figures were re-checked.
B. Once re-checking the figures, the mistake in the accounts was noticed.
C. The mistake in the accounts only came to light when the figures were re-checked.
D. When the figures were re-checked they came to light the mistake in the accounts.
C
 : You won’t find a more dedicated worker anywhere than Mrs Jones.
A. Mrs Jones is the most dedicated worker you won’t find nowhere.
B. Nowhere will you find a more dedicated worker than Mrs Jones.
C. Nowhere will not you find a more dedicated worker than Mrs Jones.
D. Mrs Jones can’t be found in nowhere.
B
 : The outcome of the election was never in doubt.
A. At no time was the outcome of the election in doubt.
B. At no time the outcome of the election was in doubt.
C. Never in doubt was the outcome of the election.
D. By no means was the outcome of the election been suspected.
A
 : The only way to eliminate world terrorism is by united opposition.
A. Only with united opposition could we eliminate terrorism.
B. Only by united opposition can we eliminate terrorism.
C. Only in this way can world terrorism be eliminated.
D. Only then can we eliminate terrorism.
B
 : He forgot about the gun until he got home.
A. Not until he got home did he forget about the gun.
B. Not until he got home did he remember about the gun.
C. Not until he had got home did he remember about the gun.
D. Not until he had got home did he forget about the gun.
B
 : The truth only came out on the publication of the general’s personal diaries.
A. Only by publishing the general’s personal diaries, did the truth come out.
B. Not until the general’s personal diaries published did the truth come out.
C. Hardly were the general’s personal diaries published than the truth came out.
D. Only when the general’s personal diaries were published did the truth come out.
D
 : They argued for hours before finally reaching an agreement.
A. No sooner had they reached an agreement than they argued for hours.
B. Not until they had argued for hours did they reach an agreement.
C. Having reached an agreement, they argued for hours.
D. They argued for hours and then an agreement was reached.
D
 : She was so tired that she could barely speak.
A. She was too tired to speak.
B. She was very tired so that she could speak.
C. Despite being tired, she could speak.
D. Because of her tiredness, she couldn’t speak.
A
 : We hurried to the airport only to find that our flight had been delayed.
A. Only after hurrying to the airport did we find out our flight had been delayed.
B. We hurried to the airport in order to find our flight was delayed.
C. As soon as we hurried to the airport, our flight was delayed.
D. Despite hurrying to the airport, our flight was delayed anyway.
A
 : Just as I sat down to relax, the phone rang.
A. No sooner had I sat down to relax than the phone rang.
B. The phone rang as soon as I sat down to relax.
C. I sat down to relax and then the phone rang.
D. Having sat down to relax, the phone rang.
A
 : He failed the exam because he hadn’t studied hard enough.
A. If he had studied hard enough, he wouldn’t have failed the exam.
B. He hadn’t studied hard enough; therefore, he failed the exam.
C. He only failed the exam because he hadn’t studied hard enough.
D. Despite studying hard enough, he still failed the exam.
A
 : The lecture was so boring that many students fell asleep.
A. Because the lecture was boring, many students fell asleep.
B. So boring was the lecture that many students fell asleep.
C. The lecture being boring, many students fell asleep.
D. The students fell asleep due to the boring lecture.
A
 : Let me know if you need any help.
A. If you need any help, I might let you know.
B. In case of needing help, let me know.
C. You need to let me know if you need help.
D. I will help you only if you let me know.
B
 : The accident happened because the driver was speeding.
A. Had the driver not been speeding, the accident wouldn’t have happened.
B. The speeding driver caused the accident.
C. The accident wouldn’t have happened if the driver hadn’t been speeding.
D. It was the speeding that led to the accident.
A
 : We can go for a walk if it stops raining.
A. If it stops raining, then we can go for a walk.
B. We can only go for a walk when it stops raining.
C. It needs to stop raining so we can go for a walk.
D. Stop raining so we can go for a walk.
A
 : The scientist conducted many experiments before making a breakthrough.
A. Not until the scientist made a breakthrough did he conduct many experiments.
B. The scientist conducted many experiments in order to make a breakthrough.
C. The scientist’s many experiments led to a breakthrough.
D. After conducting many experiments, the scientist made a breakthrough.
B
 : He left the house without an umbrella, and it began to rain heavily.
A. No sooner had he left the house than it began to rain heavily.
B. He forgot his umbrella and then it rained heavily.
C. Because he left his umbrella at home, it started raining heavily.
D. It rained heavily as he was leaving the house without an umbrella.
A
 : Mary was feeling ill, so she decided to go to bed early.
A. Mary went to bed early because she was feeling unwell.
B. Mary’s illness resulted in her early bedtime.
C. Despite feeling unwell, Mary went to bed early.
D. Although it was early, Mary’s illness made her go to bed.
A
 : The lecture was so boring that many students fell asleep.
A. Because the lecture was uninteresting, many students slept.
B. So uninteresting was the lecture that many students fell asleep.
C. The students fell asleep due to the lecture’s lack of interest.
D. Many students slept during the uninteresting lecture.
B
 : Let me know if you need any help.
A. If you need help, I will tell you.
B. In case you need some help, you can let me know.
C. You should only ask for help if you need it.
D. Needing help, you can ask me to let you know.
B
 : We can go for a walk if the weather clears up.
A. The weather needs to clear up before we can go for a walk.
B. If the weather is clear, we will be able to go for a walk.
C. Only when the weather gets better can we go for a walk.
D. Because of the good weather, we can go for a walk.
A
 : The scientist conducted many experiments before making a breakthrough.
A. The scientist’s numerous experiments led to a breakthrough.
B. Not until the scientist made a breakthrough did he conduct many experiments.
C. The scientist conducted many experiments in order to achieve a breakthrough.
D. The scientist’s breakthrough came about after many experiments.
A
 : Having finished his homework, Nam went to play football.
A. Nam went to play football after he had finished his homework.
B. Because Nam had finished his homework, he went to play football.
C. Nam’s completion of his homework allowed him to play football.
D. With homework done, Nam played football.
A
 : Despite working hard, he failed the exam.
A. He worked hard but still failed the exam.
B. He failed the exam even though he had worked hard.
C. Because he failed the exam, he had to work hard.
D. Only if he had worked hard would he have passed the exam.
A
 : If you practice speaking English more, you will improve.
A. The more you practice speaking English, the better you will become.
B. You will improve your English only by practicing speaking more.
C. Your English improvement depends on how much you practice speaking.
D. Without practicing speaking more, you cannot improve your English.
A
 : The deadline is approaching. We need to start working on the project as soon as possible.
A. With the approaching deadline, we should get started on the project soon.
B. The project needs to be started as soon as possible because of the deadline.
C. We will start working on the project only when the deadline approaches.
D. The sooner we start on the project, the sooner the deadline will be.
A
